Setting up to learn or develop in Java is relatively simple. There are different
tools that provide the most basic of features (compiling and internal JVMs), but
also provide recommended educational features such as step-programming and
incorporated debugging. This details the fundamental directories someone learning
Java needs, as well as my personal recommendations on IDEs and editors.

The first directory that you'll need is Java's JDK directory. The install link
can be found here: https://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html
Another must-have is a competent code editor or an IDE (Integrated Development
Environment). Most code editors include a Java IDE, however I will also detail
how to compile and run a Java program the 'old fashioned way'. For development
purposes, code editors such as Atom, or Sublime Text work fantastically as they
include several 'packages' or third-party additions that allow for a Java program
to be compiled and debugged in-house. However, for beginners and learners, I
recommend installing an educational Java IDE called BlueJ, found here: 'https://www.bluej.org/'
BlueJ includes several features that learners will greatly appreciate such as a
Step-Debugger and continuous compilation, however, to each their own.

There are many ways to compile and run a Java program, and I usually recommend
compiling in an IDE, however, the old fashioned way of compiling using the JDK
and a terminal works as well. I will just detail how compiling works here, so
I don't have to write it again.

      1. Start by opening up the native terminal (CMD for Windows, Terminal for
      MacOS, Console for Linux).
      2. Ensure that your code is saved as a .java file, as this will not work
      otherwise.
      3. Type in 'javac NameOfJavaProgram.java'. If the error ''javac’ is not
      recognized as an internal or external command, operable program or batch
      file.' occurs, modify your Java path.
      4. Each system has their own method of modifying the Java path. The Java
      path should be where the JDK was installed. For Windows, the command might
      be, 'set path=C:\Program Files\Java\jdkX.X.X_XXX\bin', where the correct
      JDK version is inputted. I recommended just searching for tutorial for your
      own OS.
      5. After compilation, execute the command 'java NAmeOfJavaProgram'. 
